# Version 0.0.3 Design Goals

## Current Project State

Right now, I need to figure out how to actually structure this project.

I think the best plan at the current moment is to create a new repo called sage-example or something with sage as a sub-module, then work backwards from there somehow.

The first version of the example application can be similar to how the current test library works, just some simple function that gets called inside of the main Sage engine loop.

## Goals

The following things should be possible with whatever system ends up being created:

* The application should be able to be a seperate project. Meaning, the application should be able to be designed with the Sage engine as a submodule inside of the Application's folder. Essentially, the two things must be as seperate from eachother as possible with the locations of these things being agnostic to eachother.
* The application should be able to interact with Sage's libraries and functions easily, meaning it should be able to interact with the subsystems inside of Sage.
* The application should be able to change settings inside of the engine and it's functionality based on an initialization phase.

## Possible Plan?

One possible way for how to accomplish this:

Inside the Sage binary, we could dynamically define an API structure containing all of the relevant functions for the selected and activated systems, then 'send' the API over to the application whenever we communicate between the two codebases.

Inside the application library, we use the API whenever we need to call functions from Sage. Sage would load the library dynamically, so the functions from the application would be exposed.
