# Version 0.0.2 Design Goals

## Current Project State

I've decided to start from scratch code-wise in order to get a better idea of how to structure the project.
So essentially the project is just the documents.

## Design Goals

As a good first milestone to reach, we should have the main Sage project output a binary that has the following features:

* Hot reloading of a test library function "do_needful()", that prints something to the terminal and waits one second on the thread.
* The hot reloading should be toggled during the build process.
* Call the test library function in a loop.

This is going to require some thorough reverse engineering of the hot reloader library that I found. I'm going to have to learn a lot of Rust.
The hot reloading system should allow me to modify the string literal being printed or the duration of the thread sleep. It should be as non-intrusive as reasonably possible.

There doesn't need to be any real thought to how the program should be designed right now. The Hot Reloading system is pretty fundimental to whatever else we'd be doing, so it's reasonable to just pretend that the entire Sage project beyond the hot reloader is just trying to be boilerplate minimum code. I will use future updates to think about how to design the actual engine/framework. (See: Future)

We will also need a more advanced build system most likely. Whatever I settle on, it should allow me to build either a hot reloadable or static version of the binary with the press of a button. If I have to write my own vscode button or something somehow to do that, I will.

The hot reloading system doesn't need to be perfect or fully featured (like serializing types or something) but it should allow me to at the very least modify the string literal and the duration of the test library function at will.

While I'm making these initial design decisions about file structure and placement, I should try to be as minimalistic as possible so that it's easier to change my mind about how the project is structured. At the very least I think that this hot reloader will need to be two crates, one for exposing the actual library and another containing the procedural macros it requires. Seeing as the only other two aspects of the project are a small binary and a test library, there doesn't need to be much forethought put into project structure beyond making it as loosely defined as possible so that it can be easily swapped or changed.

Reasoning for the above paragraph:
I'm sort of worried about how to structure Sage in a way that allows for modular use of the engine and framework while also abstracting away the application. I don't really know what structure I'm going to go with. So the worst case scenario I'm planning for here is that the ENTIRE structure of the project may need to be changed. The hot reloader should stand on it's own as its own library in that worst case scenario. That's the idea.

## Details

Judging from how the lib_hot_reloader library works, it seems like hot reloading is a matter of implementing the functionality into some sort of procedural macro used during library loading. This procedural macro essentially creates this other thread watching the dynamic library for changes and automatically hot reloads the library somehow.

It's pretty confusing and I'm going to have to grind my brain against it for a while.

## Future

Once a basic version of the toggleable hot reloading system is done, we can start to work on the structure of Sage itself. One big problem in my mind currently is figuring out how to do the Engine/Application structure.

Whatever the solution to that problem should be, it should allow the application code to be segmented off from the engine code and only need to send in a few key inputs to it. It should also be made in a way that allows for as much complexity in the application side of the project as needed, such as the application needing it's own libraries or dependencies. The application should also be as hot reloadable as possible.
